---
layout: single
title: Christmas 2020
categories: Shows
tags: Christmas
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/2020-christmas.jpg
  teaser: /assets/images/2020-christmas.jpg
toc: false
---

Maybe it was having dealt with COVID-19 much of the year, or maybe it was something else.<!--more--> The week before Thanksgiving we talked about when we would put up our tree. That cascaded into a conversation about whether or not to put a little more effort into our outside Chistmas display. In previous years, that has consisted of about 4 strings of AC lights strung in a few bushes. 

I got on Amazon and ordered some string LED's for the roof line. I started looking for some decorating ideas when I hit upon a site talking about a little app called <a href="https://lightshowpi.org/" target="_new">lightshowpi</a> and synchronizing holiday lights to music. I read... and kept reading... and even read some more. I happened to have a spare Raspberry Pi 4 sitting around and an 8 channel relay. I started playing around, bought more lights, swapped the 8 channel relay for 2x 8-channel solid state relays, bought a ton of landscaping wire and vampire plugs... and whoohooo! 

The result was pretty cool. I could play music and the lights would flicker on/off in-sync with it. I imagine this is what Cro-Magnons felt like when they made their first bone fish hooks.

I say that because shortly after getting everything perfected and feeling very accomplished, I happened upon this <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=90oZ52M4IC0" target="_new">Johnson Family Christmas</a> video.

I imagine this is what a Cro-Magnon would feel like after building their first bone fish hook, only to have someone from the 21st century introduce them to stainless steel.

So, from there I immediately started my research, design and planning for *next* year. 

Nonetheless, here is a short video demonstrating my first animated light display with lightshowpi.

{% include video id="Eck1W1OIDn8" provider="youtube" %}